E2E CV blog post part 1 (#3482)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2022-05-03-e2e-cv-pt1.md

---
title:

>   'End-to-End Computer Vision API, Part 1: Data Versioning and ML pipelines'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  'End-to-End Computer Vision API, Part 1: Data Versioning and ML Pipelines'
```

Reviewer: But maybe move `Data Versioning and ML Pipelines` to the `description(Long)` fields? Not sure, but it feels like a subtitle. This one is completely up to you, just a thought

Author: I'd like to keep `Data Versioning and ML Pipelines` in the title so that it's clear from it what the post will be about.

date: 2022-05-03
description: >

  In the last few years, training a well-performing Computer Vision (CV) model
  in Jupyter Notebooks became fairly straightforward if you use pre-trained Deep
  Learning models and high-level libraries that abstract away much of the
  complexity (`fastai`, `keras`, `pytorch-lightning` are just a few

>   examples).  The hard part is still incorporating this model into an

Reviewer: Extremely long sentence. Not easy to read/comprehend. Important as it's the abstract/summary. Try to break it up 🙂

Reviewer: In general `description` should probably be much shorter since it get's rendered in the blog's front page and truncated heavily, especially with such a long title (see https://dvcorg-e2ecvblogpart1.gtsb.io/blog -- both featured post and cards below).

Author: done

>   examples).  The hard part is still incorporating this model into an
>   application that runs in a production environment bringing value to the
>   customers and our business.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I get this sentence. Do you mean something like this?

```suggestion
  examples).  However it's still hard to integrate these models into a
  production application in a way that brings value to the
  customers and business.
```

And probably adding a sentence about what solution to this problem will be presented would be good.

Author: done

descriptionLong: |
  _This is the first part of a three-part series of posts._

>   In the last few years, training a well-performing Computer Vision (CV) model in Jupyter Notebooks became fairly straightforward if you use pre-trained Deep Learning models and high-level libraries that abstract away much of the complexity (`fastai`, `keras`, `pytorch-lightning` are just a few examples). 

Reviewer: > So I guess my previous comments apply more to `descriptionLong` actually 😬

picture: 2022-05-03/e2e-cv-pt1-cover.png
author: alex_kim
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/end-to-end-computer-vision/1178
tags:
  - Computer Vision
  - DVC
  - CML
  - Studio
  - CI/CD
  - Experiment Tracking
---

### Introduction

A typical ML project lifecycle goes through three phases:

1. Active exploration or proof-of-concept phase. Here we try many different
   approaches to data preprocessing, model architectures, and hyperparameter
   tuning with the goal of finally settling on the most promising combination.
2. Application development phase. Here we build all the “plumbing” around the
   model, that is: getting input data, massaging it into the right format,
   passing it to the model, and, finally, serving the model's output. The goal
   here is to end up with a version of an end-to-end application that is robust
   and well-performing enough to be considered for deployment to the production
   environment.
3. Production deployment phase. Here we promote a well-tested version of the
   application from the development environment to the production environment.

> In this series of posts we'll describe an approach that streamlines all three
> phases. As our demo project, we've selected a very common deployment pattern in

Reviewer: Minor: seems like a separate paragraph.

```suggestion
In this series of posts we'll describe an approach that streamlines all three
phases.

As our demo project, we've selected a very common deployment pattern in
```

Reviewer: P.s. if that lonely sentence wants friends, you could move the bullets about parts 1,2,3 here and combine all into a paragraph instead of that list. Just an idea, up to you

Author: Paraphrased and move up (above the list)

CV projects: a CV model wrapped in a web API service. Automatic defect detection
is an example problem that we are addressing with this pattern. Specifically,
we'll perform an

> [image segmentation](https://ai.stanford.edu/~syyeung/cvweb/tutorial3.html) task

Reviewer: The deployment pattern addresses automatic defect detection?
Image segmentation is a kind of automatic defect detection?
Sorry, I have no experience in this field. But maybe we can water down the introduction for a more general reader? Not sure

Author: Added a paragraph with more context

[paper](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Congying-Qiu/publication/327701995_Saliency_defect_detection_of_magnetic_tiles/links/5b9fd1bd45851574f7d25019/Saliency-defect-detection-of-magnetic-tiles.pdf)
and available in this GitHub
[repository](https://github.com/abin24/Magnetic-tile-defect-datasets.).

![A sample from the image segmentation dataset we used for this project. Top row: images of magnetic tile surfaces. Bottom row: segmentation mask (white pixels show defective areas)](/uploads/images/2022-05-03/dataset_sample.png '=800')

- This post (part 1) introduces the concepts of data versioning and ML pipelines
  as they apply to Computer Vision projects.
- Part 2 will focus on experiment tracking and management - key components
  needed for effective collaboration between team members.
- In part 3, you’ll learn how to easily move your model training workloads from
  a local machine to cloud infrastructure and set up proper CI/CD workflows for
  ML projects.

### Target Audience

We assume the target audience of this post to be technical folks (e.g. Software
Engineers, ML Engineers, Data Scientists) who are familiar with the general

> Machine Learning and Computer Vision concepts, Python programming, CI/CD

Reviewer: I'm a Software Engineer, not familiar with CV though. And I'm having a hard time understanding the abstract and intro.

Author: Slightly rephrased.

1. [`3_Evaluate.ipynb`](https://github.com/iterative/magnetic-tiles-defect/blob/main/notebooks/3_Evaluate.ipynb)
   computes model performance on the test dataset

Jupyter Notebook is by far the most popular tool for quick exploratory work when
it comes to data analysis and modeling. However, it's not without
[its own limitations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jiPeIFXb6U). One of the
biggest issues of Jupyter is that it has no guardrails to ensure
reproducibility, e.g. hidden states of variables and objects as well as the
possibility to run cells out of order. While there are several projects that
attempt to alleviate some of these issues (notably,
[`nodebook`](https://github.com/stitchfix/nodebook),
[`papermill`](https://github.com/nteract/papermill),
[`nbdime`](https://github.com/jupyter/nbdime),
[`nbval`](https://github.com/computationalmodelling/nbval),
[`nbstripout`](https://github.com/kynan/nbstripout), and
[`nbQA`](https://github.com/nbQA-dev/nbQA)), they don’t solve them completely.

That's where the concepts of data versioning and ML pipelines come in.

### Data Versioning

Here, we'll briefly touch on DVC's functionality to version data and other

> artifacts (e.g. model weights).

Reviewer 2: Both here and throughout the blog post, consider starting with a problem in the use case that's being addressed instead of diving directly into our tools. Most people probably don't care until they know how it solves some problem they might have.

picture: 2022-05-03/e2e-cv-pt1-cover.png
author: alex_kim
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/end-to-end-computer-vision/1178
tags:
  - Computer Vision
  - DVC
  - CML
  - Studio
  - CI/CD
  - Experiment Tracking
---

### Introduction

In this series of posts, we'll describe an approach that streamlines the three
phases that almost all CV projects go through:

1. Active exploration or proof-of-concept phase. Here we try many different
   approaches to data preprocessing, model architectures, and hyperparameter
   tuning with the goal of finally settling on the most promising combination.
2. Application development phase. Here we build all the “plumbing” around the
   model, that is: getting input data, massaging it into the right format,
   passing it to the model, and, finally, serving the model's output. The goal
   here is to end up with a version of an end-to-end application that is robust
   and well-performing enough to be considered for deployment to the production
   environment.
3. Production deployment phase. Here we promote a well-tested version of the

>    application from the development environment to the production environment.

Reviewer 2: Do we need this numbered list? It doesn't look like you ever return to it, and it doesn't match the 3 parts of the blog post, so I'm not sure why it's needed. You could probably summarize the series as being about taking a model or CV project from exploration to production.

Author: rephrased and remove the list

biggest issues of Jupyter is that it has no guardrails to ensure
reproducibility, e.g. hidden states of variables and objects as well as the
possibility to run cells out of order. While there are several projects that
attempt to alleviate some of these issues (notably,
[`nodebook`](https://github.com/stitchfix/nodebook),
[`papermill`](https://github.com/nteract/papermill),
[`nbdime`](https://github.com/jupyter/nbdime),
[`nbval`](https://github.com/computationalmodelling/nbval),
[`nbstripout`](https://github.com/kynan/nbstripout), and
[`nbQA`](https://github.com/nbQA-dev/nbQA)), they don’t solve them completely.

That's where the concepts of data versioning and ML pipelines come in.

### Data Versioning

Here, we'll briefly touch on DVC's functionality to version data and other
artifacts (e.g. model weights).

In most ML projects, training data changes gradually over time as new training
instances (images in our case) get added while older ones might be removed.
Simply creating snapshots of our training data at the time of training (e.g.
labeling data directories with dates) quickly becomes unsustainable since these

> snapshots will contain many duplicates.

Reviewer 2: Might also want to mention organization as another benefit. Tracking which date/dir was used for each model can become a mess.

Author: added a clarifying sentence

A much better approach is to:

1. track only the deltas between different versions of the datasets; and

2. have the project’s git repository store only the reference links to the data
   while the actual data is stored in a remote storage

This is exactly what we can do with DVC by running only a couple of DVC commands
and relying on DVC to handle all the underlying complexity:

- compute hashes of files (images in our case) and move them to the cache
- automatically manage reflinks to files stored in cache depending on the
  version of the dataset being used
- push and pull to different remote storage solutions using the same command
  syntax
- and, most importantly, integrate the process of data versioning with git-based

>   workflows

Reviewer 2: IMO this is pretty deep and technical. Not sure if we need all of it. We could probably remove or find a better way to summarize at a higher level.

Author: paraphrased
